Have you ever wondered, who is delivering those packages everyone on the network is talking about and what they are? Why does the internet even get chopped in little packages and send all across the globe? Don’t they get lost? And do those which get lost ever find their way home?
As performance gets more and more important these days, lets step back from all of the optimization of the code and take a close look at what lies underneath.
This talk will cover everything you need to know about the link layer wrapped nicely with a golden bow.Ola is a Web Compatibility Engineer at Mozilla living in Berlin, who is very passionate about Open Source, the Offline First concept, web standards and empowering people. She loves making the web accessible for everyone, riding the trails, and daughter-driven development.
                This talk presents Node.js in a different light, rather than using it as just a web server, let's have a high-level look at how to build the following in Node:Umar Hansa is a web developer based in London who has a focus on writing tips, tutorials and documentation for the web platform. He’s a web developer at SitePen and is also a Google Developer Expert for Chrome.
                Unravel the mystery of JavaScript addition with an empirical adventure through the JavaScript web console, Mathmagic Land, and the ES5 specs. Emerge with new perspective on the methods behind the JavaScript mayhem, and the inspiration and tools to explore new mysteries in JavaScript yourself!
              Meara is a scientist turned software engineer, currently building awesome web apps at TableXI. She strives to build friendly and inclusive codebases and communities. Outside of work, Meara enjoys dabbling in music and crafts, eating cheese, and spoiling other people’s pets.
                After years of working as a programmer in companies of very different shapes and sizes and attending a lot of meetups and users groups, I'd like to share with you the insights that I've gathered, the problems identified and tips that contributed to building an inclusive and diverse workplace.
              Alvin is a web and game developer, trainer and aspiring speaker working on interactive graphics and part of the Diversity Working Group at BBC news. 
A lover of open-source, always looking to push the boundaries of the browsers when it comes to creativity and interactivity.
Becomes truly passionate when it comes to journalism, 3D and all things data-driven.
                If you use the terminal a lot, the idea of having your own command-line tools and dashboards surely sounds enticing. JavaScript is a good friend of the terminal! We'll talk about how you can utilize various JavaScript modules to build fun, quirky tools & applications that live in your terminal.
              Galuh is a Data Engineer at Midtrans based in Jakarta, Indonesia. In her spare time, she enjoys building side projects for both learning and fun. When away from her computer, she can be found reading, writing, or sketching.
                Ever lost a day fixing a flaky integration test? They're brittle, slow, expensive, and give us poor feedback, but we sink time and money into keeping them working.
We'll learn how to break down integration tests into unit tests and deliver the same results with a simpler testing setup.
              I've been building web apps and open-source projects for over a decade.
You probably use my WebSocket libraries, and I wrote a book on JavaScript testing.
Right now I'm working on a book exploring computer science topics by implementing Git.
                Starting from the basics, this talk will walk you through what WebAssembly is, and then why it’s fast.
              Vigneshwer is an innovative data scientist with an artistic perception of technology and business, having 3+ years of experience in various domains such as IOT, DevOps, Computer Vision & Deep Learning and is currently engaged as a research analyst crunching real-time data and implementing state of art AI algorithms in the research lab of the world’s largest decision science company in Bengaluru, India. He believes that technology needs to have a human-centric design to cater solutions to a diverse audience. He’s an official Mozilla TechSpeaker and is the author of Rust Cookbook.
                Chrome Dev Tools constantly evolves. New handy features are added but developers are often unaware of them. Learn lots of tip and trips on using the Chrome Dev Tools which will improve your productivity.
              Lora is a Software Engineer at Zalando. She is passionate about front-end development, user experience, and agile software development. In her free time, she is a mum of a 3-year-old ball of energy and a dancer.
                Kids have this magical ability to take something you think you understand well and turn it upside down by challenging norms.
Teaching has been an extraordinary turning point for me. You can take the lessons learned from it and turn them into skills. Everyone can benefit from teaching!
              Ramón is a Chilean fellow living in Vienna, Austria.
He's been developing Mac, iOS and Web software for almost ten years and loving every minute of it.
During the last six years he's been running the “Computer Game Programming” after-school activity at his old school in Vienna where he teaches kids to make games with different technologies. He's also currently wrapping up his Software Engineering degree at the Vienna University of Technology, and at the same time helping run the “Ruby Habits” study group.
He loves puppies and turtles.
                This talk is based on my experience building a Tamagotchi game in HTML5 Canvas and what I learned about promises, generators and coroutines in the process. I’ll show the downside to promises (then-able hell) and why generators are the key to synchronous-looking async code.
              Jenn Creighton is a senior front end engineer at ClassPass where she writes code between workouts. She is likely to talk your ear off about React, JavaScript, or her hatred of CSS floats. She lives in New York City with her 2 cats & 1 dog & a handful of succulents. Say hello to her @gurlcode!
                Life in the early days of the web was hard. One day your HTML is disintegrating, the next you are fighting someone named "*~*Ninjad00d*~*" who has found a way to take over your forum system. Lessons in security in these days were hard learned.
              Katie Fenn is a software engineer at npm. She works with all aspects of the web, particularly JavaScript, CSS, Node.JS and ops. When not at her desk, she is usually in the pool or on her bike in the Peak District.
                This talk explains the sorting algorithms behind popular JS engines and shows the behavior of the native sort method varies depending on the implementation behind. This talk wishes to highlight the importance of recognizing algorithm patterns in our daily life web apps.
              Claudia Hernández is a mexican frontend developer at Auth0. She has previously worked at Dailymotion in Paris and on projects for companies such as Air France, EDF, Groupe SEB and Aéroport de Paris. Claudia has a computer science background and loves learning emerging web technologies. When she is not coding, chances are you’ll find her reading a book ! Claudia also loves traveling and discovering new cultures.
                Browsers are built on very simple principle - "one fit that suits all". 
We use number of browser extensions to make most of our browser. How about being on other side of table; lets create one.
From Javascript developer to a cross browser extension developer in 20 mins.
              Trishul is a professional frontend developer; writes React code for living and volunteers for Mozilla to justify his existence. He is an expert in developing browser extensions.
You may know him for his Measure-it extension with 10K+ users. He also creates Youtube tutorial videos, to help developers to understand and get started with various Webextension APIs.
                This talk focuses on how Impostor Syndrome and the Dunning-Kruger effect work to undermine our estimation of our individual skills. Who do these cognitive biases affect? And how do they collectively shape the face of the software development industry? The impact of these biases on personal and professional relationships among individuals and groups will be examined, along with what can be done to diagnose and cope with them.
              Jessica Rose is a self taught technologist obsessed with fostering more equal access to technical education and meaningful work in technology. She's helping lead brilliant developers as a technical manager at FutureLearn. She's also founded the Open Code meetup series, co-founded Trans*Code and hosts the Pursuit Podcast.
                One way to become a more versatile and adaptable programmer is to learn a new way to look at programming — a new programming paradigm. This is the story of my head first dive into the weird world of Concatenative Programming and how it affected my view on JavaScript and programming in general.
              Stian is a web developer based in Oslo. Loves creative programming and weird technology. Accidentally designed a programming language once. Works at BEKK and does data visualisation and other web-related things for clients.
                Electron lets you use JS to write cross-platform desktop applications that look like the real deal -- that's kinda cool? But the thing ships with a million scary security warnings! So, what are some of the fun things you could do with it, how could they go wrong, and how do you make them safe?
              Florencia Herra Vega is an excitable generalist who loves trying to break down and explain complex technical problems. As CTO and co-founder of Peerio, she wrangles distributed systems, distributed teams, and trying to make end-to-end encryption usable to humans. She is also Co-VP Conference for NorthSec, one of Canada’s biggest security conferences. In both of these positions, she basically just tries to find people smarter than her to do the things they love.
In addition to her career wrangling computers, she has also spent the past decade running popular education programs on topics ranging from sexual health to introductions to coding. She likes to take a harm reduction approach to digital security (and to most other things, too).
Florencia was born in Costa Rica and lives in Montreal. When not in front of a computer, she enjoys cooking intricate meals, the writing of Octavia Butler and Ursula K. LeGuin, playing board games, and lifting heavy objects.
                A fantasy re-telling of how npm install works, from the npm cli to the registry and the pieces involved. It breaks down the modular CLI build AND the registry microservices in a way that any audience level can consume.
It's told like a Dungeons & Dragons game and there will be no code on the slides
              Jeff Lembeck is a Engineering Manager with npm, inc. He writes code, talks a lot, and is the former lecturer for University of Washington's JavaScript certificate program and a guest lecturer for Ada Developer's Academy. He's also a co-organizer of SeattleJS and an active contributor to the open source community. When far away from a computer, Jeff seeks out oyster happy hours and longs for a hot tub boat to call home.
                
              Irina is a mentor at CodeYourFuture and a recent graduate of University of Edinburgh (MSc. in Artificial Intelligence). 

CodeYourFuture is a coding school built by volunteers to teach refugees and asylum seekers how to code and find jobs in the industry. Irina volunteers there as a mentor in the main 6-months course but also leads the monthly taster classes aimed towards disenfranchised groups within tech (such as women and the LGBT community) to allow them to try their hand at code. 

Irina will be joined by Khaled Zaky - a Yemeni asylum seeker, and a recent graduate of CodeYourFuture's first class in Glasgow, to talk about CodeYourFuture's mission and journey so far.
                A few years ago I set about building a simple JavaScript chatbot that then grew into a chat based automation system that I use every day. In this talk I share my progress, my reasons for doing it and what I’d like to do in the future whilst hoping to inspire the audience to build something weird.
              Luke has been building stuff for the web since the early 2000s as a hobbyist before starting his development career in 2012. Currently a software engineer within the Bet Customer tribe at Sky Betting & Gaming, he’s also the host and co-organiser of LeedsJS. In his spare time he enjoys JavaScript, pixel art, automation and cooking.
                Chaos Monkey, but for your web app. Come learn how intentional failure injection is not only good for the back end but also for the front end. Hint: it means you'll get paged less at 3AM, and I think we're all happy about that.
              Brian is currently working as a senior cloud developer advocate at Microsoft and he's all about developers, developers, developers. Previously he was a JavaScript engineer at Netflix, LinkedIn and Reddit. When not working, Brian finds time to teach on Frontend Masters, run his mouth on Front End Happy Hour, travel all over the world, and play with his adorable dog. Brian is currently a resident of Seattle, WA.
                
              CJ, known to her friends as “ceej”, has been on the Internet making mistakes since 1987. She has somehow survived to enjoy writing software even more than she did back then, and she suspects she might have learned some useful things about how to do it during that time. Her current position as VP of Engineering at npm, Inc, is her favorite job ever. She gets to run the npm registry and the amazing tiny team that keeps the packages flowing.

Her favorite member of One Direction is Brian Eno.